README.md, before:


# X Media Downloader

X Media Downloader is a web service for downloading videos and images from individual Twitter/X posts. It runs as a REST API server in a Docker container, providing asynchronous media extraction capabilities.

## Features

- **Web API Service**: REST API with multiple endpoints for media extraction and session management
- **Asynchronous Processing**: Non-blocking media downloads - immediate response with background processing
- **Media Downloading**: Downloads all images and videos from Twitter/X post URLs
- **Session Management**: Automatic login session handling with manual refresh capabilities
- **URL Validation**: Validates Twitter/X URLs before processing
- **Descriptive Filenames**: Saves media with structured filenames including date, time, and username
- **Debug Logging**: Configurable logging levels for troubleshooting
- **Dockerized**: Runs entirely within a Docker container
- **Google Cloud Storage Integration**: All session data, screenshots, and media files are stored in a GCS bucket

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed and running
- A Twitter/X account with username and password
- A Google Cloud Storage bucket (with the VM's service account having read/write access)

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/xmedia-downloader.git
   cd xmedia-downloader
   ```

2. **Build the Docker Image**:
   ```bash
   docker build -t xmedia-downloader .
   ```

3. **Run the Web Service**:
   ```bash
   docker run -d \
     --name xmedia-downloader \
     -p 8080:8080 \
     -e X_USERNAME="your_twitter_username" \
     -e X_PASSWORD="your_twitter_password" \
     -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
     xmedia-downloader
   ```

## API Endpoints

### 1. Extract Media
**`POST /extract-media`**

Downloads media from a Twitter/X post URL asynchronously.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/extract-media \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"url": "https://x.com/username/status/1234567890"}'
```

**Responses:**
- `202 Accepted`: Request received and queued for processing
- `400 Bad Request`: Invalid or missing URL

### 2. Refresh Session
**`POST /refresh-session`**

Forces a fresh login session, regardless of current session validity.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/refresh-session
```

**Responses:**
- `202 Accepted`: Session refresh started in background
- `500 Internal Server Error`: Failed to start refresh process

### 3. Session Status
**`GET /session-status`**

Checks the current authentication session status.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/session-status
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "session_file_exists": true,
  "session_valid": true,
  "session_path": "x-session.json (in GCS bucket)"
}
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `8080` | Web server port |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Logging level (`INFO` or `DEBUG`) |
| `X_USERNAME` | *Required* | Twitter/X username |
| `X_PASSWORD` | *Required* | Twitter/X password |
| `GCS_BUCKET_NAME` | *Required* | Google Cloud Storage bucket for all persistent data |
| `PAGE_LOAD_TIMEOUT` | `3000` | (ms) Page load timeout for session refresh script |
| `LOGIN_WAIT_TIMEOUT` | `15000` | (ms) Login wait timeout for session refresh script |
| `FORM_INTERACTION_DELAY` | `3000` | (ms) Delay for form interactions in session refresh script |
| `SELECTOR_TIMEOUT` | `3000` | (ms) Selector wait timeout for session refresh script |

### Docker Run Example

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name xmedia-downloader \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e X_USERNAME="your_username" \
  -e X_PASSWORD="your_password" \
  -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
  xmedia-downloader
```

**Debug Mode:**
```bash
docker run -d \
  --name xmedia-downloader \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG \
  -e X_USERNAME="your_username" \
  -e X_PASSWORD="your_password" \
  -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
  xmedia-downloader
```

## Persistent Storage (GCS)

All persistent data (session file, screenshots, downloaded media) is stored in the specified Google Cloud Storage bucket. There is no need to mount local volumes for these files.

| GCS Path Prefix | Purpose |
|-----------------|---------|
| `x-session.json` | Authentication session storage |
| `screenshots/` | Login process and tweet screenshots |
| `media/` | Downloaded media files |

## How It Works

The service orchestrates several components:

1. **Web Server**: Flask-based REST API that handles incoming requests
2. **Session Manager**: Maintains Twitter/X authentication sessions with automatic refresh, storing session in GCS
3. **Content Extractor**: Uses Playwright to scrape tweet metadata and upload screenshots to GCS
4. **API Client**: Leverages authenticated sessions to call Twitter's internal APIs
5. **Media Downloader**: Downloads and uploads media files directly to GCS
6. **Asynchronous Processing**: Background threads handle time-consuming operations

## Workflow

1. **Request Received**: API endpoint receives POST request with Twitter/X URL
2. **URL Validation**: Validates the provided URL format
3. **Immediate Response**: Returns 202 status confirming request acceptance
4. **Background Processing**: 
   - Validates/refreshes authentication session (session file in GCS)
   - Extracts tweet metadata and media URLs
   - Downloads media files and uploads to GCS
   - Captures and uploads screenshots to GCS
5. **Logging**: All operations logged for monitoring and debugging

## Supported URL Formats

- `https://twitter.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `https://x.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `http://twitter.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `http://x.com/username/status/1234567890`

Query parameters and `www.` prefix are supported.

## Troubleshooting

### Enable Debug Logging
```bash
docker run ... -e LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG ...
```

### Check Session Status
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/session-status
```

### Force Session Refresh
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/refresh-session
```

### View Container Logs
```bash
docker logs xmedia-downloader
```

## File Naming Convention

Downloaded files follow this pattern:
```
YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_username_tweetid_index.extension
```

Example: `20231027_153000_elonmusk_1234567890_1.mp4`

Commit message:

Refactor timeout handling in session management scripts to use environment variables. Replace fixed timeout values with configurable NETWORK_TIMEOUT and INTERACTION_TIMEOUT in refresh_twitter_session.js, TwitterAPIClient, and related files, enhancing flexibility and consistency across the application.

README.md, after:


# X Media Downloader

X Media Downloader is a web service for downloading videos and images from individual Twitter/X posts. It runs as a REST API server in a Docker container, providing asynchronous media extraction capabilities.

## Features

- **Web API Service**: REST API with multiple endpoints for media extraction and session management
- **Asynchronous Processing**: Non-blocking media downloads - immediate response with background processing
- **Media Downloading**: Downloads all images and videos from Twitter/X post URLs
- **Session Management**: Automatic login session handling with manual refresh capabilities
- **URL Validation**: Validates Twitter/X URLs before processing
- **Descriptive Filenames**: Saves media with structured filenames including date, time, and username
- **Debug Logging**: Configurable logging levels for troubleshooting
- **Dockerized**: Runs entirely within a Docker container
- **Google Cloud Storage Integration**: All session data, screenshots, and media files are stored in a GCS bucket

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed and running
- A Twitter/X account with username and password
- A Google Cloud Storage bucket (with the VM's service account having read/write access)

## Quick Start

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/xmedia-downloader.git
   cd xmedia-downloader
   ```

2. **Build the Docker Image**:
   ```bash
   docker build -t xmedia-downloader .
   ```

3. **Run the Web Service**:
   ```bash
   docker run -d \
     --name xmedia-downloader \
     -p 8080:8080 \
     -e X_USERNAME="your_twitter_username" \
     -e X_PASSWORD="your_twitter_password" \
     -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
     xmedia-downloader
   ```

## API Endpoints

### 1. Extract Media
**`POST /extract-media`**

Downloads media from a Twitter/X post URL asynchronously.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/extract-media \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"url": "https://x.com/username/status/1234567890"}'
```

**Responses:**
- `202 Accepted`: Request received and queued for processing
- `400 Bad Request`: Invalid or missing URL

### 2. Refresh Session
**`POST /refresh-session`**

Forces a fresh login session, regardless of current session validity.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/refresh-session
```

**Responses:**
- `202 Accepted`: Session refresh started in background
- `500 Internal Server Error`: Failed to start refresh process

### 3. Session Status
**`GET /session-status`**

Checks the current authentication session status.

**Request:**
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/session-status
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "session_file_exists": true,
  "session_valid": true,
  "session_path": "x-session.json (in GCS bucket)"
}
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `8080` | Web server port |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `INFO` | Logging level (`INFO` or `DEBUG`) |
| `X_USERNAME` | *Required* | Twitter/X username |
| `X_PASSWORD` | *Required* | Twitter/X password |
| `GCS_BUCKET_NAME` | *Required* | Google Cloud Storage bucket for all persistent data |
| `NETWORK_TIMEOUT` | `30000` | (ms) Timeout for all network operations (page loads, API calls, downloads) |
| `INTERACTION_TIMEOUT` | `5000` | (ms) Timeout for UI interactions and waits |

### Docker Run Example

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name xmedia-downloader \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e X_USERNAME="your_username" \
  -e X_PASSWORD="your_password" \
  -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
  -e NETWORK_TIMEOUT=45000 \
  -e INTERACTION_TIMEOUT=3000 \
  xmedia-downloader
```

**Debug Mode:**
```bash
docker run -d \
  --name xmedia-downloader \
  -p 8080:8080 \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG \
  -e X_USERNAME="your_username" \
  -e X_PASSWORD="your_password" \
  -e GCS_BUCKET_NAME="your-gcs-bucket-name" \
  xmedia-downloader
```

## Persistent Storage (GCS)

All persistent data (session file, screenshots, downloaded media) is stored in the specified Google Cloud Storage bucket. There is no need to mount local volumes for these files.

| GCS Path Prefix | Purpose |
|-----------------|---------|
| `x-session.json` | Authentication session storage |
| `screenshots/` | Login process and tweet screenshots |
| `media/` | Downloaded media files |

## How It Works

The service orchestrates several components:

1. **Web Server**: Flask-based REST API that handles incoming requests
2. **Session Manager**: Maintains Twitter/X authentication sessions with automatic refresh, storing session in GCS
3. **Content Extractor**: Uses Playwright to scrape tweet metadata and upload screenshots to GCS
4. **API Client**: Leverages authenticated sessions to call Twitter's internal APIs
5. **Media Downloader**: Downloads and uploads media files directly to GCS
6. **Asynchronous Processing**: Background threads handle time-consuming operations

## Workflow

1. **Request Received**: API endpoint receives POST request with Twitter/X URL
2. **URL Validation**: Validates the provided URL format
3. **Immediate Response**: Returns 202 status confirming request acceptance
4. **Background Processing**: 
   - Validates/refreshes authentication session (session file in GCS)
   - Extracts tweet metadata and media URLs
   - Downloads media files and uploads to GCS
   - Captures and uploads screenshots to GCS
5. **Logging**: All operations logged for monitoring and debugging

## Supported URL Formats

- `https://twitter.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `https://x.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `http://twitter.com/username/status/1234567890`
- `http://x.com/username/status/1234567890`

Query parameters and `www.` prefix are supported.

## Troubleshooting

### Enable Debug Logging
```bash
docker run ... -e LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG ...
```

### Check Session Status
```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/session-status
```

### Force Session Refresh
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/refresh-session
```

### View Container Logs
```bash
docker logs xmedia-downloader
```

## File Naming Convention

Downloaded files follow this pattern:
```
YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_username_tweetid_index.extension
```

Example: `20231027_153000_elonmusk_1234567890_1.mp4`
